---
title: Complacency in Tech
slug: complacency-in-tech
date: 2023-09-04
published: false
tags: ['os', 'ubuntu', 'tools']
topics: ['tools-of-the-trade']
description: I’m sitting in the Glade, looking out at the beauty that surrounds me and find myself thinking about the state of the world we live in.
---

This is a topic I’m passionate discussing in person (with anyone that will listen and occasionally to less responsive audiences), but have shied away from speaking about online. This is part of the surveillance state that we are living in, the targeted abuse at anyone speaking out against the narrative, cancel culture, our reliance of Big Tech to have a home (or reach) on the web, fear of being ridiculed and wanting to stay grey, in the case that things get to a point of needing to bug out.

I’m sure this is true for many of you reading this, but for whatever reason, I’ve witnessed an incredible amount of complacency from the industry I have worked in for over twenty years. Complete disregard for common-sense, a willingness to confirm no matter the absurdity and a slow and gradual of giving up personal freedoms for the sake of virtue-signalling the current distraction of the day.

I kinda throw up in my mouth a little when I come across an open-source project, or company website, or twitter profile littered with “I stand with Ukraine!”, “She/her/it”, “Black Lives Matter!”, “We’re carbon-neutral!”. Fuck me, when did tech become cheerleaders for the modern day propaganda campaign? I’m just looking for your effing documentation, not be bombarded with your socio-political view points? I mean, don’t get me wrong, each to their own. I don’t really care. We each have completely unique world-views, based a billion micro-decisions and experiences that have lead to who you are today. But that’s the thing. That is what makes humanity to diverse, so beautiful, so vibrant. It would be a pretty sad world if we all saw the world the same way, with no way of bringing our unique experience to the table.

But I digress. I’m not really sure where I was going with the entry, other to say while I am by no means a virologist or a climate specialist, or any other fancy title you many want to throw in, I do have the advantage of being raised with common sense, the ability to think critically, question everything and make my own mind up. 

With that being said, I’ve spent the better part of three years researching the current climate and have my own theories on how we got here, where the powers that would be are wanting to take us and what we can do to risk waking up in a world where your every movement, transaction, “carbon” usage, spoken word, internet activity, thoughts and dreams are being tracked, tallied up against your social credit score, determining your social credit payout, not owning anything and somehow being happy about it, being told where you can or can’t go or what you can do/say/think – modern day slavery perfected (or Communism x.10?).

I honestly believe the most critical debate of our time, to be held in a public forum and broadcast across every inch of the world, are Germ vs Terrain Theory, and Climate Change. Other topics include gender dysphorea, the hyper-sexualisation of kids, child-trafficking, the never ending wars, the intentional break down of our food supply, the poisoning of our air, water and food – all important topics that need to spoken about and acknowledged (which all beg the question – how are we ok with this?), but the first two are being used as the basis for The Great Reset. Or I like to call it The Great Fuck You. 

Once you are able to take a step back and actually go through the “research” papers which are being used as the basis to prove that human-made climate change exists and come to the realisation that of the 12 papers written, 8 of them start with the premise that climate change exists. Then you look at the 4 that actually “prove” the case and the shoddy science, how any opposing papers or voices are suppressed, creating an echo chamber where 99% of scientists agree! I’m not a “ist” anything, but I don’t think that’s how science works. My understanding of science is always question all assumptions, follow the data (not the money), welcome alternate views, celebrate being proven wrong. 

Then the old Germ vs Terrain theory. There was a point in human history where we understood how the body works. Or at least the fundamentals in that your environment (terrain) dictates the state of your body. This includes your physical environment and toxins you’re exposed to, but the well-being of your mind, the food you consume all play a part in your health. Then came this profiteering globalist, noticing how his labourers would apply petrolium to a variety of ailments (probably inflicted by their working conditions) and saw an opportunity to replace generations of understanding of natural health to the Big Pharma we se today. 

Where everything can be treated / masked with a pill, normalising the crazy long list of side-effects), where motives are driven by profit, where masking one thing breaks down another and a world were we are being pressured on all fronts to take a foreign substance, with a proven track record to kill or maim, on the basis that it’s 99%-1% effective in treating a disease that nobody after 200 FOI requests can prove exists, with a test that is not intended for the purpose at a threshold that is supposed to pick up and identify a grain of sand on the forest floor. Good luck with that. Not to mention all the ridiculous mask mandates when the bloody things say on the label that they do not work.

I do worry about the state of the world sometimes when none of these things are being questioned by more people. But hey, this is the world we live in and one way or another, it’s going to be a hell of a ride. 

I realise these are controversial topics and in this day and age qualify as though-crime and I’m already anticipating the lash-back – while you are correct, I am in no-ways qualified in any of the sciences, but when the science doesn’t make sense and divergent voices (maaaaany who are in the sciences, with impressive qualifications to boot) are silenced and ridiculed for cautioning against a supposedly untested substance, outlining the potential harms, along with the amount of times the mainstream occupied everything being caught out blatantly lying, staging scenes with dummies, all the while distracted by dancing nurses (in all those hospitals that were overflowing).

Now I know many of you will say, I know x, y, z who died! You granny killer! I had it ten times and almost died (oh and I am doing my part and up-to-date with all my boosters), I work in the front-line – I saw people die! Well yes. Many people died. The sniffles, aka a cold, was a phenomena that was prior to 2020 a normal, accepted part of life (kind of like you body needing to occasionally purge all the toxins that we are exposed to), but was then re-branded as bla bla bla. Deadly virus killing all the worlds granny’s. The sad thing is many granny’s did die. As did many grandpa’s. But it wasn’t a scary virus that killed them, but rather being locked up, fed constant fear, feeling a constant sense of despair, fucked immune system, tested with a test that doesn’t work (for the purpose), low or no exercise – all with a hefty payout if they die and it’s put down as C19. 

People die for all kinds of reasons (getting hit by a truck for example) and the past three plus years have taken it’s toll on all of us. Where I have issue is when everything all of a sudden gets put in the same category, with no logic in sight. Then to incentive hospitals to fudge the numbers, you have to stop and ask yourself why. Anyone noticed the point where the fear porn started off as x many covid deaths, to x cases? Want to get the cases up? Scare the sheep to getting more tests. It’s all about fudging the numbers and public perception. 

Ok, enough about climate change and germ-vs-terrain theory (though both are topics I want to write more on, given the implications) and back to the original topic – the tech industry. Rather the question the status quo, doing their own research and coming to their own conclusions, I find the large majority of the tech community are out building covid tracking apps, virtue signalling and going ahead with the herd, rather than questioning how the technology we create and consume is being used to enslave us? All this hoo-ha about security, but hardly anyone talking about Minix OS, the tiny operating system that is present in all the devices we use? You know, the one with it’s own built in router that can still operate when your computer is turned off, that has full access to your hardware, files, etc? Not concerning at all now is it? In a world where surveillance capitalism is accepted as normal and the potential harm from a world governed by AI and big data, I’m really flabbergasted that more people in tech aren’t shouting across the interwebs. 

Then there is this whole cyber pandemic fear campaign, where critical infrastructure can be toggled off on a whim, with supposed bad-actors being blamed ensuing a crisis that steriotypical baddie, Klaus Schwab likes to say will “make covid look like a mild inconvenience”. Funny how they always happen to run these simulated events right before the actual events happen. 
All of this being used as the reason to switch to a zero-trust policy, where access to everything is denied unless you can prove (with a thousand data points) that you are who you say you are. It starts with Facebook, then anything on the web that is white-listed (and off to the echo-chamber for anyone on the black list), then access to your car, your grocery store, to get on a bus. 

Ooooh, look shiny CBD’s – it’s based on crypto, but regulated by the financial industry (what could go wrong). Considering there are only two countries in the world that are not currently trialling CBD’s (project [name] here in South Africa) and the successful test cross-national payment, it’s kinda boggles the mind that more people in tech don’t see how a system that tracks your every transaction, movement, carbon usage and is tied to your social credit score isn’t scary as fuck. 

For those of you who don’t really know what CBD’s are and how they work, here is a quick overly simplified primer:

### Currently:

You get paid, you top up your car with fuel, buy groceries, treat yourself to something nice, take out your partner for dinner, go on a trip, etc. Each of those transactions is recorded by your local bank, who is governed by strict privacy laws and (technically) not allowed to share any of your transactional data (unless you explicitly or get fooled into give the right to use it). The transactions between your supermarket, gas station, restaurant are sent as bulk payments to their respective banks. All of this data is silo’d in through various funnels. Not to mention all the cash transactions and why cash is still king, though for me bartering is even better. The central banks only have access to the bulk payments in their ledgers. Nothing about what your spending your heard earned money on and definitely not dictating what you can spend it on.

### CBD:

Every transaction you make is directly to the central bank, every action, location meta data, every thing you do, would interact with directly through the central bank and it’s partner organisations (WHO, IMF, Wold Bank, WEF, etc etc). Nicely packaged up to score your rating as a good citizen, giving you privileges when you do what they want and punishing you when you do or say anything that is not permitted by the all thing and should you be stupid enough to defy any of the crazy mandates, but judged and tried by the All-Thing and either disposed of or sent to a re-education camp. 

Sounds pretty fun, right? Fuuuuuuck that is what I say. I’m not taking any part of it. I don’t buy into the fear, I don’t buy into any of the narratives, I don’t virtue signal things I don’t understand. The only thing I know for us, is that none of us know anything. We are fed tid-bits of truth and falseness through our personal echo chambers, which when you go deep enough down the rabbit hole, will either paralyse you in fear, make you hyper-radicalised and further divide us into nice manageable camps all fighting amongst ourselves rather than taking stock of who is really pulling the puppet strings.
